Rainwater harvesting is becoming a procedure that many Canadians are incorporating into their daily lives, although data does not give exact figures for implementation.Rainwater can be used for a number of purposes including stormwater reduction, irrigation, laundry and portable toilets. In addition to low costs, rainwater harvesting is useful for landscape irrigation. Many Canadians have started implementing rainwater harvesting systems for use in stormwater reduction, irrigation, laundry, and lavatory plumbing. Provincial and municipal legislation is in place for regulating the rights and uses for captured rainwater. Substantial reform to Canadian law since the mid-2000s has increased the use of this technology in agricultural, industrial, and residential use, but ambiguity remains amongst legislation in many provinces. Bylaws and local municipal codes often regulate rainwater harvesting.

Multiple organizations and companies have developed in Canada to provide education, technology, and installation for rainwater harvesting. These include the Canadian Association for Rainwater Management (CANARM), Canadian Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC), and CleanFlo Water Technologies. CANARM is an association that prioritizes education, training and spreading awareness for those entering the rainwater harvesting industry.

Property rights
The National Plumbing Code permits the collection of rainwater for non-potable uses such as toilet flushing and outdoor irrigation throughout Canada. The right to harvest and use rainwater is determined by the provincial government and municipal bylaws. However, a majority of the provinces lack any significant legislation. The law of capture is not well defined and it varies for residential and non-domestic uses. When building a rainwater storage system, it is required that the design follows closely to the provincial codes and municipal bylaws. Multiple publications and reports have been developed by the Canadian Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC) in order to aid Canadians in designing and installing rainwater capture systems that comply with these codes, regulations and bylaws.

Provincial property rights
Many provinces have outlined little to no provincial property rights pertaining to rainwater. Listed below are the provinces with some provincial legislation. However, many local municipalities have bylaws outlining criteria for capture and storage containers among other articles related to rainwater harvesting.

Alberta
Alberta has a set of Rainwater Harvesting Guidelines for residential use. They are recommended for the safe design, construction and maintenance of residential rainwater harvesting systems. The guidelines provide additional detail than what is present in the current code and supports conformance to CAN/CSA 128.1 Design and Installation of Non-Potable Water Systems/Maintenance and Field Testing of Non-Potable Water Systems. The Alberta Building Code and the National Plumbing Code requirements have precedence over these guidelines. In addition to the guidelines, a handbook was developed to provide broader understanding of the technical components of the guidelines.

British Columbia
Rainwater in British Columbia appears to be common property subject to the law of capture. Effectively, rainwater belongs to no one and everyone until it is captured. While landowners do not have a property interest in water until it is captured, their right to harvest rainwater is unrestricted and not subject to concerns of downstream water users. Rainwater is not included in the Water Act's system of prior allocation. The likely common law position does not recognize correlative rights of other users to share equitably in the common resource of rainwater.

Ontario
In Ontario, the province permits the use of rainwater for flushing toilets and urinals, as well as for sub-surface and below ground irrigation systems. A large number of standards and regulations have been put in place regarding catchments, conveyance networks, and storage containers in Ontario Guidelines for Residential Rainwater Harvesting Systems. Since the temperature during winter months in Ontario drops below zero, rainwater is at a high risk of freezing. Therefore, the province of Ontario places a strong significance on guidelines to ensure that rainwater is in a controlled temperature environment. In addition, to avoid freezing in the pipe network, the water must be properly controlled via draining and temperature controls. Various systems and scenarios have been outlined regarding overflow management, pressurization, and back-flow prevention.